BỘ NGOẠI GIAO

 -------

CỘNG HÒA XÃ HỘI
 CHỦ NGHĨA VIỆT NAM

 Độc lập - Tự do - Hạnh phúc 

 ---------------

Số:
 32/2015/TB-LPQT

Hà Nội, ngày 28
 tháng 07 năm 2015

 

THÔNG BÁO

VỀ VIỆC ĐIỀU ƯỚC QUỐC TẾ CÓ HIỆU LỰC

Thực hiện quy định của Luật Ký kết,
gia nhập và thực hiện điều ước quốc tế năm 2005, Bộ Ngoại giao trân trọng thông
báo:

Bản ghi nhớ giữa Chính phủ nước Cộng
hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam và Chính phủ Vương quốc Thái Lan về hợp tác lao động, ký tại Băng-cốc ngày 23 tháng 7 năm 2015, có hiệu lực kể từ ngày 23
tháng 7 năm 2015.

Bộ Ngoại giao trân trọng gửi bản sao
bản ghi nhớ theo quy định tại Điều 68 của Luật nêu trên./.

 

 

Nơi nhận:

- Ủy ban Đối ngoại Quốc hội (để
 báo cáo);

 - Văn phòng Chủ tịch nước (để báo cáo);

 - Văn phòng Chính phủ (để báo cáo);

 - Phòng Công báo, Văn phòng Chính phủ;

 - Bộ Tư pháp;

 - Bộ Công an;

 - Bộ Lao động, Thương binh và xã hội;

 - Đại sứ quán Việt Nam tại Thái Lan;

 - Bộ Ngoại giao: ĐNA; 

 - Lưu: LPQT (2).

TL. BỘ TRƯỞNG

 KT. VỤ TRƯỞNG

 VỤ LUẬT PHÁP VÀ ĐIỀU ƯỚC QUỐC TẾ

 PHÓ VỤ TRƯỞNG

 Lê Đức Hạnh

 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND ON LABOUR COOPERATION

The Government of the Socialist Republic of Viet
Nam represented by the Ministry of Labour, Invalids and Social Affairs and the
Government of the Kingdom of Thailand represented by the Ministry of Labour
(hereinafter referred to jointly as the “Parties” and individually as a
“Party”);

Respecting the principle of equality and mutual
benefits;

Desiring to enhance the distinguished relations
between the Parties and the Parties’ interest in strengthening their economic
growth and promoting and developing of cooperation between the Parties in the
field of labour;

Sharing a common aspiration to promote sound labour
policies and practices, to improve the capacities and capabilities of both
countries, to enhance skills of manpower, social security and to strengthen
transparency and efficiency in the sending and receiving process of workers
between the two countries;

Have agreed as follows:

Article
1

For the purpose of
implementation of this Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafter referred to as
“MOU”) the competent authorities shall be:

a) Ministry of Labour, Invalids and Social Affairs
on behalf of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam;

b) Ministry of Labour on behalf of the Government
of the Kingdom of Thailand.

Article
2

The Parties shall work
towards the encouragement of technical cooperation between the two countries in
the field of labour, as follows:

a) Exchange of systems, programs, studies,
expertise, research, studies and information on areas including (but not
limited to) comparative labour and employment law and administration (e.g.
collective bargaining, compliance and enforcement, resolution of labour
disputes, social security and labour protection, rehabilitation, freedom of
association, occupational safety and health, maritime work, unemployment
insurance and management of foreign workers) and enhancing labour productivity;

b) Encouragement of the exchange of visits between
the personnel in charge and experts;

c) Exchange of information for prevention of
illegal recruiting of manpower and human trafficking for employment;

d) Any other areas of cooperation agreed upon by
the Parties in the fileld of labour.

Article
3

The Parties shall cooperate
on skill development in order to upgrade skill of manpower, and enhance labour
productivity.

Article
4

The activities under Article
2 and Article 3 may be implemented through a variety of means, such as the
exchange of best practices, information, manual and expertise; joint project,
workshop and dialogue. The arrangement shall be agreed upon by the Parties
subject to the national interests and available resources and on the
case-by-case basis.

Article
5

The Parties shall make
efforts to enhance transparency and efficiency of the sending and receiving
process for the workers from one country who intend to work legally in another
country.

In implementing this MOU, the Parties agree to
conclude the “Agreement on the Employment of Workers”, setting out the
implementing details of the sending and receiving process.

The Parties shall decide on possible sectors and
quota of workers to be recruited when possible.

Workers employed under this MOU have the right to
fair treatment in the workplace subject to national laws, regulations, and
policies of the receiving country.

Article
6

In order to support the
implementation of this MOU and the Agreement related to the Employment of
Workers set forth in Article 5, the competent authorities of the Parties may
appoint officers to be the coordinators for each side.

Such officers, through the consultation with each
side, may research, assist, coordinate, monitor and advise the sending and
receiving process. The Parties shall facilitate the tasks of the officers.

Article
7

a) The Parties shall work out
and agree on the implementation work plans of this MOU.

b) Each competent authority shall designate a
national focal point at senior officials' level to facilitate communication
between the Parties concerning this MOU.

c) The competent authority of the Parties shall
conduct meeting on the implementation of this MOU periodically for senior
officials and once a year on rotation basis for ministerial level.

d) Each Party shall be responsible for the travel,
accommodation and subsistence costs of its delegations and personnel resulting
from the implementation of this MOU, including for the meetings of the senior
officials. The host Party shall facilitate the required local transportation
for visiting delegations and for the logistical and secretarial costs
pertaining to the meetings in the implementation of this MOU.

Article
8

Any difference arising out of
the interpretation or implementation of this MOU and its related Agreement
shall be resolved amicably through consultation and/or negotiation between the
Parties.

Article
9

a) This MOU shall enter into effect
on the date of the signature by the Parties.

b) This MOU shall remain in effect for 5 (five)
years and may be renewed upon mutual consent. However, this MOU may be
suspended or terminated by either Party if there is any justifiable reason and
the termination shall take effect sixty days following the date of written
notice to the other Party.

c) This MOU shall remain effective during its
ongoing renewal process unless one of the Parties requests for its termination.

d) Any amendment of this MOU may be made as agreed
upon by the Parties through diplomatic channels.

e) The termination of this MOU shall not affect the
validity and duration of any ongoing action plan, projects, programmes until
the completion of such projects, and programmes.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly
authorized by their respective Governments, have signed this MOU.

DONE in duplicate at Bangkok, Thailand on this 23rd
day of July 2015, in the English language.

 

FOR THE
 GOVERNMENT OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM

 Pham Thi Hai Chuyen

 Minister of Labour, Invalids and

 Social Affairs

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF
 THAILAND

 Surasak Karnjanarat

 Minister of Labour--- THÔNG TIN THÊM ---
Ten: Thông báo 32/2015/TB-LPQT về hiệu lực của Bản ghi nhớ giữa Việt Nam - Thái Lan về hợp tác lao động do Bộ Ngoại giao ban hành
So hieu: 32/2015/TB-LPQT
Loai van ban: Thông báo
Linh vuc nganh: Lao động - Tiền lương
Noi ban hanh: Bộ Ngoại giao
Nguoi ky: Lê Đức Hạnh
Ngay ban hanh: 23/07/2015
Ngay hieu luc: 23/07/2015
Ngay dang: 10/08/2015
So cong bao: Từ số 917 đến số 918
Tinh trang: Còn hiệu lực


--- MỤC LỤC ---
- THÔNG BÁO VỀ VIỆC ĐIỀU ƯỚC QUỐC TẾ CÓ HIỆU LỰC
- MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND ON LABOUR COOPERATION
  - Article 1 For the purpose of implementation of this Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafter referred to as “MOU”) the competent authorities shall be:
  - Article 2 The Parties shall work towards the encouragement of technical cooperation between the two countries in the field of labour, as follows:
  - Article 3 The Parties shall cooperate on skill development in order to upgrade skill of manpower, and enhance labour productivity.
  - Article 4 The activities under Article 2 and Article 3 may be implemented through a variety of means, such as the exchange of best practices, information, manual and expertise; joint project, workshop and dialogue. The arrangement shall be agreed upon by the Parties subject to the national interests and available resources and on the case-by-case basis.
  - Article 5 The Parties shall make efforts to enhance transparency and efficiency of the sending and receiving process for the workers from one country who intend to work legally in another country.
  - Article 6 In order to support the implementation of this MOU and the Agreement related to the Employment of Workers set forth in Article 5, the competent authorities of the Parties may appoint officers to be the coordinators for each side.
  - Article 7 The Parties shall work out and agree on the implementation work plans of this MOU.
  - Article 8 Any difference arising out of the interpretation or implementation of this MOU and its related Agreement shall be resolved amicably through consultation and/or negotiation between the Parties.
  - Article 9 This MOU shall enter into effect on the date of the signature by the Parties.

--- VĂN BẢN LIÊN QUAN ---

Van ban duoc dan chieu:
  - Luật Ký kết, gia nhập và thực hiện điều ước quốc tế 2005 (ID: 2309)

Van ban lien quan cung noi dung:
  - Quyết định 2404/QĐ-TTg năm 2014 về kế hoạch thực hiện Hiệp định về hợp tác lao động giữa Việt Nam - Lào do Thủ tướng Chính phủ ban hành (ID: 262242)
  - Thông báo 36/2013/TB-VPCP hiệu lực của Hiệp định về hợp tác lao động giữa Việt Nam - Lào (ID: 203414)
  - Quyết định 934/QĐ-TTg năm 2013 ký Hiệp định về Hợp tác lao động giữa Việt Nam - Lào do Thủ tướng Chính phủ ban hành (ID: 194408)