BỘ GIAO THÔNG VẬN
 TẢI

CỤC HÀNG KHÔNG VIỆT NAM

 -------

CỘNG HÒA XÃ HỘI CHỦ
 NGHĨA VIỆT NAM

 Độc lập - Tự do - Hạnh phúc 

 ---------------

Số: 901/QĐ-CHK

Hà Nội, ngày 19 tháng 4
 năm 2024

 

QUYẾT
ĐỊNH

VỀ VIỆC BAN HÀNH SỔ TAY HƯỚNG DẪN ĐÀO TẠO CHO
CHUYÊN VIÊN KỸ THUẬT VÀ GIÁM SÁT VIÊN AN TOÀN KHAI THÁC CẢNG HÀNG KHÔNG, SÂN
BAY (TECHNICAL STAFF/INSPECTORS) 

(TU CHỈNH LẦN 3)

CỤC
TRƯỞNG CỤC HÀNG KHÔNG VIỆT NAM

Căn cứ Luật Hàng không dân dụng Việt Nam số 66/2006/QH11
ngày 29/6/2006; Luật sửa đổi, bổ sung một số điều
của Luật Hàng không dân dụng Việt Nam số 61/2014/QH13 ngày 21/11/2014;

Căn cứ Nghị định số 66/2015/NĐ-CP ngày 12/8/2015 của Chính phủ quy định
về Nhà chức trách hàng không;

Căn cứ Nghị định số 05/2021/NĐ-CP ngày 25/01/2021 của Chính phủ quy định
về quản lý, khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay;

Căn cứ Thông tư số 29/2021/TT-BGTVT ngày 30/11/2021 của Bộ trưởng
Bộ Giao thông vận tải quy định chi tiết về quản lý, khai thác cảng hàng không,
sân bay;

Căn cứ Quyết định số 651/QĐ-BGTVT ngày 29/5/2023 của Bộ trưởng Bộ
Giao thông vận tải quy định chức năng, nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn và cơ cấu tổ chức
của Cục Hàng không Việt Nam; Quyết định số 371/QĐ-BGTVT
ngày 02/4/2024 của Bộ trưởng Bộ Giao thông vận tải sửa đổi Điều
3 Quyết định số 651/QĐ- BGTVT ngày 29/5/2023 của Bộ trưởng Bộ Giao thông
vận tải quy định chức năng, nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn và cơ cấu tổ chức của Cục Hàng
không Việt Nam;

Căn cứ Quyết định số
1506/QĐ-CHK ngày 11/7/2022 của Cục trưởng Cục Hàng không Việt Nam về việc ban
hành chính sách và quy trình chung về đảm bảo nguồn nhân lực hệ thống giám sát
an toàn hàng không;

Xét đề nghị của
Trưởng phòng Quản lý cảng hàng không, sân bay,

QUYẾT
ĐỊNH:

Điều 1. Ban
hành kèm theo Quyết định này Sổ tay hướng dẫn đào tạo cho chuyên viên kỹ thuật
và giám sát viên an toàn khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay

(Aerodrome Technical
Staff/Inspector Training Manual) (được tu chỉnh lần 3 để cập nhật theo hướng
dẫn đào tạo cho giám sát viên an toàn khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay của Tổ
chức hàng không dân dụng quốc tế - ICAO). Sổ tay hướng dẫn được đăng tải
trên Trang thông tin điện tử của Cục Hàng không Việt Nam tại mục “Văn bản”.

Điều 2. Quyết
định này có hiệu lực kể từ ngày ký và thay thế Quyết định số 2339/QĐ-CHK ngày
27/10/2023 của Cục trưởng Cục Hàng không Việt Nam về việc ban hành Sổ tay hướng
dẫn đào tạo giám sát viên an toàn khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay.

Điều 3. Các
ông/bà: Chánh Thanh tra Cục Hàng không Việt Nam; Trưởng phòng Quản lý cảng hàng
không, sân bay; Thủ trưởng các cơ quan, đơn vị và cá nhân liên quan chịu trách
nhiệm thi hành Quyết định này./.

 

 Nơi nhận:

-
 Như Điều 3;

 - Các Phó Cục trưởng (để biết);

 - P.TCCB, TTHK;

 - Lưu: VT, QLC (Phg 10b).

CỤC TRƯỞNG

 Đinh Việt Thắng

 

AERODROME TECHNICAL STAFF/INSPECTOR TRAINING
MANUAL

(Attachment
of Decision number 901/QD-CHK dated 19/4/2024 by Director General)

 

AMENDMENTS

No.

Date
 applicable

Subject

Entered
 by

Version
 1

April
 10th, 2020

-

CAAV

Version
 2

March
 14th, 2022

Update
 legal document

CAAV

Version
 3

October
 27th, 2023

Adjust
 the duration and training method for Technical Staff/Aerodrome Safety
 Inspector according to ICAO APAC Guidance

CAAV

Version
 4

April
 19th, 2024

Add
 deadlines and priorities for specialized training courses

CAAV

 

TABLE
OF CONTENT

AUTHORISATION

CONDITIONS OF USE

DISTRIBUTION LIST

ABBREVIATIONS

CHAPTER 1.
INTRODUCTION

I. Objectives of the
document

II. Reference
documents

III. Safety oversight
obligation

IV. Critical elements
of a safety oversight system

CHAPTER 2. TRAINING
PROGRAMME

I. Training policies

1. Qualification
policies

2. Training policy

II. Roles &
responsibilities

1. Director General

2. Human resource
director

3. AMD director

4. Technical
personnel

CHAPTER 3. CAPACITY
BUILDING PROGRAMME

I. Training need analysis

II. Methodology

III. Training
roadmaps

1. Induction
(Initial) Training

2. Core (Regulatory)
Training

3. On-the-Job
Training

4. Recurrent /
Refresher / Continuation and Specialised Training

5. Recurrent /
Refresher / Continuation training

6. Specialised
Training

7. Qualification
Certificates

8. Failing to Meet
Qualification Standards

IV. Development of
training plan

CHAPTER 4. FORMAL
TRAINING GUIDELINES

I. General policies

II. Types of training

III. Formal in -house
initial training

IV. Structured
initial on-the-job training

CHAPTER 5. ON-THE-JOB
TRAINING & QUALIFICATION

I. General policies

II. OJT configuration

1. Task structure and
assignment

2. Restrictions

3. Training structure

III. Definitions

IV. Roles and
responsibilities

1. HR director

2. AMD director

3. OJT instructor

4. Trainee

V. OJT Method - Level
I

VI. OJT Methods -
Level II

CHAPTER 6.
TECHNICALLY QUALIFIED INSPECTORS

I. Technical
inspectors

II. ADI positions

1. Movement Area
Inspector

1.1. Function

1.2. Primary task

1.3. Minimum
Qualification Requirement

2. Visual Aids and
Electrical System Inspector

2.1. Function

2.2. Primary task

2.3. Minimum
Qualification Requirement

3.
Operating Procedure and Safety Measure Inspector

3.1. Function

3.2. Primary task

3.3. Minimum
Qualification Requirement

4. Rescue and Fire
Fighting Inspector

4.1. Function

4.2. Primary task

4.3. Minimum Qualification
Requirement

APPENDIX 1. SUMMARY
OF ADI EXPERIENCE

APPENDIX 2. ADI
TRAINING PROGRAME

PHASE 1- INITIAL/BASIC
TRAINING

PHASE 2- CORE
(REGULATORY) TRAINING

PHASE 3- ON THE JOB
TRAINING

PHASE 4- RECURRENT/REFRESHER/CONTINUATION
TRAINING

PHASE 5- SPECIALISED
TRAINING

APPENDIX 3. TRAINING
ROAD MAP FOR AERODROME INSPECTOR

APPENDIX 4. TRAINING
NEEDS ANALYSIS

APPENDIX 5:
METHODOLOGY IN DETERMINING THE NUMBER OF AERODROME SAFETY INSPECTORS

 

AUTHORISATION

This manual is an
internal document setting out policies and procedures for Aerodrome Technical
Staff/Inspector Training, produced by the Airport Management Department to
provide the information and guidelines needed for staff’s training and
development to perform their tasks and responsibilities in Civil Aviation
Authority of Vietnam.

For the purpose of
effective management of training, I require all relevant staff to use this
document in the performance of their duties. This manual is a living document
and I encourage you to continually contribute to its improvement and to your
work practices covered by the procedures contained in this document.

This document is
issued under the authority of the Director General of the Civil Aviation
Authority of Vietnam.

 

Dinh Viet Thang

Director General

Civil Aviation Authority
of Vietnam.

 

Initial Issue Date: April 19th, 2024

 

CONDITIONS OF USE

The assigned manual
holder is responsible for the care and upkeep of the manual, and for its
revision, in accordance with any instructions or revision material provided by
the Civil Aviation Authority of Vietnam.

Assigned manual
holders are to ensure that they familiarize themselves with the content of the
manual, including any revisions received.

Manual holders with
staff management or supervisory responsibilities shall ensure that their
subordinate staffs are fully aware of changes to work practices or duties which
may occur as a result of revisions to the manual.

The manual holder is encouraged
to identify, recommend and submit any requests to amend any part of this
manual.

Manual holders and
users are not permitted to make any alterations, erasures or use marks of
emphasis in this manual.

This manual must be
returned to the Civil Aviation Authority of Vietnam on cessation of employment
(or in the case of a contractor, upon cessation of the service contract), or
when otherwise recalled by the Director General (DG).

 

DISTRIBUTION LIST

DOCUMENT
 NUMBER

NAME
 and TITLE of HOLDER

00

Master
 Copy

01

DG
 / Director General

02

Human
 Resource Department

03

Flight
 Safety Standard Department

04

Airport
 Management Department

05

Air
 Navigation Department

06

Science,
 Technology and Environment Department

07

Finance
 Department

08

International
 Cooperation Department

09

Southern
 Airport Authority

10

Northern
 Airport Authority

11

Middle
 Airport Authority

12

Airports
 Corporation of Vietnam

 

ABBREVIATIONS

Some common
abbreviations/acronyms used in this document are as follows:

ADI

Aerodrome Inspector

AGA

Aerodrome and
 Ground Aids

AMD

Airport Management
 Department

ANS

Air Navigation
 Services

CAAV

Civil Aviation
 Authority of Vietnam

CE

Critical Element

CMA

Continuous
 Monitoring Approach

DG

Director General

EI

Effective
 Implementation

ICAO

International Civil
 Aviation Organization

LEI

Lack of Effective
 Implementation OPS Operations

MARI

Minimum Annual
 Required Inspection

PEL

Personnel Licensing

SMS

Safety management
 system

SOA

Safety Oversight
 Audit Section

SSP

State Safety
 Programme

USOAP

ICAO Universal
 Safety Oversight Audit Programme

 

CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION

I.
Objectives of the document

The Vietnamese civil
aviation legislation system provides the framework of one of the most important
mode of transportation for Vietnam both domestically and internationally. A
primary objectives of the Civil Aviation Law 2006 (amended in 2014) includes
enhancing safety, security, efficiency and service quality in the civil
aviation system in a sustainable manner, facilitating access to the air
transport network and contributing to the safe, smooth flow of passengers,
aircraft and cargo within the civil aviation system so that it can contribute
to the economic and social development of Vietnam. An effective safety
oversight system is crucial in achieving these objectives.

ICAO Doc 9760 states that
the States must be staffed with qualified and experienced personnel capable of
successfully undertaking the wide variety of required tasks. ICAO Doc 8335 also
states that the satisfactory execution of the various functions of the CAAV
depends to a large extent on the qualifications, experience, competence and
dedication of individual inspectors. In addition, it is also important for CAAV
to have inspectors with a mix of disciplines to adequately oversee their
aviation industry

ICAO safety oversight
audits and other ICAO missions have shown that many Contracting States have not
established effective safety oversight systems and that qualification of
technical personnel are often deficient, thereby creating an opportunity for
lack of safety oversights over approval holders. The establishment and
management of an effective safety oversight system require a high-level of
commitment, without which a State cannot fully satisfy its aviation system
safety-related responsibilities.

This was further
underscored by ICAO’s recent comprehensive system approach audit result showing
the area of Critical Element 4 (CE-4) “qualified personnel” having the highest
lack of effective implementation. Thus, the objective of this document is to
provide the Civil Aviation Authority of Vietnam with the guidance to improve
its CE-4 effective implementation scoring by increasing the number of qualified
inspectors and ensuring all technical staff are properly trained so that the
Vietnamese safety oversight activities will be effectively discharged.

In order to provide
comprehensive and meaningful guidance on the development and management of the
AMD’s capacity building, a training programme which includes typical training
road maps for various functional areas is presented in Chapter 4. The
implementation of this programme will ensure that AMD is capable of meeting its
safety oversight responsibilities.

Furthermore, this
document provides an overview of a typical training framework which is used to
identify appropriate types of training and respective training providers that
will help equip technical personnel with the knowledge and the skill to
discharge his/her safety oversight activities. Figure 1 shows a typical
capacity building flowchart that AMD uses to build internal capacity.

 

Figure
1. Typical Capacity Building Flowchart

II.
Reference documents

The documents listed
below are referred to in this manual and have been used as guidance for the
development of this training programme manual.

Related Documents:

• ICAO Doc.8335,
Manual of Procedures for Operations Inspection, Certification and Continued
Surveillance

• ICAO Doc.9379,
Manual of Procedures for Establishment and Management of a State’s Personnel
Licensing System

• ICAO Doc.9734A,
Safety Oversight Manual

• ICAO Doc.9734B,
Regional Safety Oversight Manual

III.
Safety oversight obligation

When permitting or
undertaking aviation activities, the Contracting State incurs certain
obligations under Chicago Convention and its Annexes.

To ensure that the
State’s system is appropriate to the level and scope of their aviation
activity, ICAO Document 9734, Part A, mentions that each of these obligations
will require consideration of the critical elements of a safety oversight
system. This should include.

State policy to
systematically manage the safety-critical pressures, dependencies and conflicts
affecting the community from internal as well as external sources. Part of that
management process call for States to consider the adoption of national requirements
that exceed ICAO SARPs in some areas for some circumstances.

While public interest
needs to be considered, States need to ensure that a proper system of checks
and balances is maintained. The State should retain effective control of
important inspection functions. Such functions cannot be delegated, otherwise,
the aviation industry will end up regulating themselves and the State’s
oversight system is not effective.

IV.
Critical elements of a safety oversight system

All ICAO Contracting
States, in their effort to establish and implement an effective safety
oversight system, need to consider the critical elements (CE) for safety
oversight.

ICAO Document 9734,
Part A, mentions that CEs are essentially the safety defence tools of a safety
oversight system and are required for the effective implementation safety
oversight critical elements of a safety oversight system encompass the whole
spectrum of civil aviation activities, including airworthiness of aircraft,
accident/incident investigation, and transport of dangerous goods by air. The
effective implementation of the CE is an indication of a state’s capability for
safety oversight.

ICAO has identified
and defined the following critical elements of a State’s

Safety oversight
system:

CE-1. Primary
aviation legislation. The provision of a comprehensive and effective aviation
law consistent with the environment and complexity of the State’s aviation
activity and compliant with the requirements contained in the Convention on
International Civil Aviation

CE-2. Specific
operating regulations. The provision of adequate regulations to address, at a minimum,
national requirements emanating from the primary aviation legislation and
providing for standardization operational procedures, equipment and
infrastructures (including safety management and training systems), in
conformance with the Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) contained in
the Annexes to the Convention of International Civil Aviation.

CE-3. State civil
aviation system and safety oversight functions. The establishment of
a Civil Aviation Authority (CAAV) and/or other relevant authorities or
government agencies, headed by a Director General, supported by the appropriate
and adequate technical and non-technical staff and provided with adequate
financial resources. The State authority must have stated regulatory functions,
objectives and safety policies.

CE-4. Technical
personnel qualification and training. The establishment of minimum knowledge and
experience requirements for the technical personnel performing safety oversight
functions and the provision of appropriate training to maintain and enhance
their competence at the desired level. The training should include initial and
recurrent (periodic) training.

CE-5. Technical
guidance, tools and the provision of safety-critical information. The provision of
technical guidance (including processes and procedures), tools (including
facilities and equipment) and safety oversight functions in accordance with
established requirements and in a standardized manner. In addition, this
includes the provision of technical guidance by the oversight authority to the
aviation industry on the implementation of applicable regulations and
instructions.

CE-6. Licensing,
certification, authorization and approval obligations. The implementation of
processes and procedures to ensure that personnel and organisations performing
an aviation activity meet the established requirements before they are allowed
to exercise the privileges of a license, certificate, authorization and/or
approval to conduct the relevant aviation activity.

CE-7. Surveillance
obligations. The
implementation of processes, such as inspections and audits, to proactively
ensure that aviation license, certificate, authorization and/or approval
holders continue to meet the established requirements and function at the level
of competency and safety required by the State to undertake an aviation-
related activity for which they have been licensed, certified, authorized and/or
approved to perform. This includes the surveillance of designated personnel who
perform safety oversight functions on behalf of CAAV.

CE-8. Resolution of
safety concerns. The
implementation of processes and procedures to resolve identified deficiencies
impacting aviation safety, which may have been residing in the aviation system
and have been detected by the regulatory authority or other appropriate bodies.

 

CHAPTER 2. TRAINING PROGRAMME

The key elements of
AMD’s training programme are as follows:

• Training policy
statement;

• Training
Objectives; and

• Competency-based
training.

Once the above
foundations are established, the respective training road maps and individual
training plan are then established using guidance shown in Figure 2 below.

Figure
2. Training Programme Overview

Depending on the
available capability, the actual trainings may be carried out under the direct
control of CAAV or conducted by other training service providers.

Training road maps
are reviewed periodically to establish a customised training road maps where it
serves its purposes and needs.

In reviewing the
effectiveness of trainings conducted in-house or by a service provider, AMD
Director are required make a determination as to whether the training methods,
syllabus, training standards, related facilities and record keeping are
adequate for its technical personnel.

I.
Training policies

In addition to the
Director’s Training Policy Statement, this chapter provides an expansion of the
policy and includes procedures that are used by AMD to employ, initially qualify,
maintain and upgrade the technical personnel used in its safety oversight
programmes.

1. Qualification
policies

2. Training policy

A. AMD in fulfilling
its obligation is committed to provide for the development of a highly skilled
and qualified work force for its aviation oversight programmes.

B. Employees will be
fully trained in the essential job tasks, knowledge, and skills that are
required to accomplish the:

(1) AMD safety
oversight; 

(2) Meet ICAO
obligations;

(3) Ensure the
conformance of the aviation community; and safeguard the travelling public.

C. The qualification
programme outlined in this manual will prepare technical personnel to apply the
standards appropriate to the position assignments during their employment with
CAAV.

D. This manual
outlines the qualification events and training for ADI and provides for both
baseline and specialisation of qualifications.

II.
Roles & responsibilities

1. Director General

With respect to
qualification of the support personnel, the Director General has the overall
responsibility for the provision of qualified technical personnel to implement
CAAV aviation oversight programme. His responsibilities include:

• Provision of adequate
qualified staff to ensure the fulfilment of Vietnam requirements and
international obligations.

• Ensure that the
budget submitted by AMD will fully support the requirements for the
qualification of the technical personnel.

• Ensure that
adequate resources are provided to the AMD to fully implement the qualification
programme for its technical personnel.

• Approve and fund
training activities necessary to this qualification programme.

Negotiate and oversee
national agreements and contracts with government and commercial training
vendors.

2. Human resource
director

With respect to
qualification of support personnel, the Human Resource Director is responsible
for on-going quality assurance of CAAV’s functions, including the provision and
quality of training.

This will include:

• Ensuring that the
support personnel qualification programme is effectively and efficiently
managed and complies with all policy requirements.

• Provisions for
evaluation of any locally arranged and conducted training.

• Review the training
programme to ensure it is meeting national objectives, ICAO requirements, and
international obligations.

• Provisions for
periodic review of training courses to ensure that the content remains current with
respect to job tasks, knowledge, skills and inspector performance requirements.

• Annual review of
the training plan for each inspector, determines completion and future training
needs.

• Hire highly
qualified individuals to serve as technical personnel in the aviation oversight
programmes.

• Ensure the
development of a highly skilled and qualified workforce.

• Ensure that an on-going
OJT programme is being administered in each Department.

• Hold supervisors
and managers accountable for ensuring that employee work assignments and
schedules allow for sufficient time for employees to fully participate in and
complete training requirements.

3. AMD director

With respect to
qualification of technical personnel, managers play a key role in assessing
gaps between oversight obligations/responsibilities and actual workforce
skills, identifying developmental needs, prioritizing training needs,
certifying the accomplishment of learning objectives and fostering on-the-job
development. This will include:

• Ensure that
employee work assignments and schedules allow sufficient time for employees to
fully participate in and complete training requirements.

• Notify the DG
regarding changes in training requirements, specify new training needs not
previously identified, and relinquish training resources that no longer apply.

• Foster a work
environment conducive to the success of the training programme. Communicate
regularly with employees regarding the status of training. Arrange for formal
training courses that are required for each inspector. Schedule On- the-
Job-training events.

4. Technical
personnel

With respect to
qualification of technical personnel, the individual employee must take a pro-
active role in ensuring that they are qualified for the job tasks that they are
to perform. This will include:

• Collaborate with
management to identify personal training needs.

• Communicate with
the immediate supervisor and peers to plan training activities.

• Actively
participate in training activities.

• Review personal
training records and documentation to ensure that it is up to date.

• Provide feedback
and evaluation regarding the effectiveness of the training programme.

 

CHAPTER 3. CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAMME

I.
Training need analysis

Prior to providing
trainings and education to each of ADI, consideration is given to the person’s
job description which lays out his/her major duties, responsibilities,
organisational relationships, scope of work and amount of supervision when
performing job tasks. Once the respective job descriptions and Minimum
Qualification Requirements (MQR) are considered against the technical
personnel’s qualification, AMD will then carry out a Training Need Analysis
(TNA) to establish the training requirements and define the Training Plan for
each of these roles and responsibilities.

In addition, it must
be also considered that some of these technical personnel have joined the
organisation at various qualification entry points (i.e. licence holder against
a non-license holder, graduate against a non-graduate, etc.) and with different
levels of experience (i.e. new to the aviation industry against those with many
years of aviation experience).

II.
Methodology

Considering the
varied entry points of technical personnel, it is important that technical
personnel are progressively and effectively transited with basic foundation
completed before moving on to next level of training. As such, AMD has adopted
a training structure for its typical training road map which consists of three
phases of training beginning with “Induction (Initial) Training”, follows by
“Core (Regulatory) Training” and ends with “On- the-Job Training (OJT)”. Due to
the uniqueness of each functional area, the training requirements under each of
these three phases have to be well guided by the individual technical
personnel’s job description.

Once the relevant
training requirements are put together in this manner, this forms the final
training road map for ADI. Training requirements for ADI together with typical
training road maps is established and is attached as Appendix 4 of this Manual.

With the training
road maps, the AMD will then accomplish the TNA mechanism and develop its
training plan aiming to fulfil all the training requirements spelled out in the
training roadmap.

The individual
training plans and the associated budgetary allocations requires the approval
of the DG.

As the training road
map typically last over a period of 2 years, the three phases in the training
road map serve as training milestones which the respective technical personnel
or AMD Director could easily monitor the progress of the individual technical
personnel.

AMD Director are
required to manage both the training road maps and training plans efficiently
and to also ensure these are effectively implemented. This is important as
these training road maps and training plans would fundamentally determine the quality
and capabilities of these technical personnel working for AMD.

Due to constant
changes in the aviation environment and complexity, AMD will carry out an
annual review of the road map and the training plan to keep it updated and
relevant.

III.
Training roadmaps

CAAV uses a typical
Training Road Map (TRM) consisting of 3 categories of training as detailed
below:

1. Induction
(Initial) Training

To equip new
technical personnel with the basic skills and knowledge relevant to their job
responsibilities and should begin at the start of employment and preferably be
completed within the first six months.

2. Core (Regulatory)
Training

Provides new
technical personnel with knowledge and skills in specific technical areas to
carry out their duties effectively. The duration for this category varies
between one to 1.5 years depending on the availability of the required
regulatory trainings.

3. On-the-Job
Training

Hands-on training
under the supervision of a senior technical personnel should be well planned
and structured. Although this category usually concluded within the first two
years of employment, however, if the new technical personnel is assessed to be
incompetent in his/her new duties, he/she will have to undergo additional
trainings till he/she reaches an acceptable level of competency.

4. Recurrent /
Refresher / Continuation and Specialised Training

Although the TRMs do
not include recurrent (or refresher) and specialised (or advance) training,
after the technical personnel have been qualified, they will continue to
receive training throughout their employment. AMD requires technical personnel
to develop their competencies continuingly on areas that are related to their
respective responsibilities. For technical personnel who are subsequently
required to implement additional tasks or more in-depth tasks, specialty
trainings or advance trainings are required to be completed before carrying out
further assignments.

5. Recurrent /
Refresher / Continuation training

Technical personnel
represent the authority and, as such, require the continuous development of
their competencies related to their respective responsibilities. This will be
accomplished through periodic training.

Recurrent/refresher/continuation
training is required for all inspectors in every two years after obtaining the
basic/initial inspector course.

6. Specialised
Training

This phase would
consist of advanced or specialized courses to ensure that ADI remain current
with changes in technology and investigative methods.

Specialised training
courses are conducted with two priority levels:

+ Level 1 (First
priority) courses which conducted within 01 years after completion of OJT.

+ Level 2 (Second
priority) courses which conducted within 03 years after completion of 1st
priority courses.

7. Qualification
Certificates

A formal completion
certificate will be issued to any inspector that:

 (1) Attends at least
85% of the hours allotted to each training course; and a copy of that
certificate will be included in the CAAV’s qualification file for the employee;
and

 (2) Completes the
exercises, tests and evaluations included in the course in a satisfactory
manner.

8. Failing to Meet
Qualification Standards

 (1) Technical
personnel failing to satisfactorily meet qualification standards will be
considered for the necessary training. This will be coordinated between the AMD
and Human Resources Department and requires the DG’s approval; and

 (2) The Technical
personnel employment with AMD will be subjected to a review if the candidate
fails to meet the qualification standard after the remedial training or the
second attempt.

IV.
Development of training plan

With the TRMs
developed for each key job functions, the AMD will then use the relevant TRM to
develop personnel training plan by detailing the course names, course dates,
training organisations, etc., for the entire training year(s).

However, the new
technical personnel’s training plan may be subjected to unforeseen changes i.e.
course cancellation/postponement, therefore, it has to be regularly updated and
tracked to ensure that the plan is successfully carried out in a timely manner.
Depending on the availability of the required courses, AMD Director must
prioritise the trainings according to the level of importance to each key job
function.

In addition, the
selection of courses should not be based on whatever courses are available but
rather based on courses that meet the specific training needs of the technical
personnel. For example, a similar topic offered by various training
organisations could come with different / varied syllabus i.e. basic or
advance, or course name/title, as such, technical personnel should find out
more about the course before registration.

In most instances,
the training plan for new technical personnel normally stretch over a period of
2 years. After the technical personnel has fully completed his/her required
trainings, his/her subsequent training plan could be just a yearly plan
covering new trainings due to new work scope or recurrent trainings, as
required.

AMD is required to
develop and maintain a training management system where the training of each
technical personnel can be traced and training related records can be kept on
completion of each training. This system will be made available to both internal
and external auditors, as and when necessary, during audit.

 

CHAPTER 4. FORMAL TRAINING GUIDELINES

This chapter provides
further guidance in the implementation of Training Road Maps and the Recurrent /
Refresher / Continuation and Specialised Training.

I.
General policies

A. It is the policy
of the CAAV that all inspectors should be qualified by training or experience
to conduct the inspections, evaluations and investigations assigned to this
office.

B. The inspectors of
the CAAV or its designees will be technically qualified on a parallel basis to
the persons in the aviation industry that they are assigned to regulate.

C. No inspector will
be obligated to conduct an inspection, evaluation or approval unless that
person believes they are technically or otherwise qualified to undertake.

D. No person will be
assigned to conduct a task unsupervised unless management believes that person
to be qualified by experience, training or applying positive transfer of
knowledge or experience.

E. All formal
training applicable to the qualifications of an inspector, whether previous to
or after employment shall be recorded in the Qualification database.

II.
Types of training

In conjunction with
the TRM, Inspectors will be given a variety of training that will include:

• Induction (Initial)
Training including formal In-house;

• Core (Regulatory)
training;

• Structured
“on-the-job-training” (OJT);

III.
Formal in-house initial training

This formal training
is a requirement for all full-time CAAV Personnel.

A. CAAV will conduct in-house
training courses through senior CAAV employees and contracted sources.

B. These courses will
consist of a formal review of the Civil Aviation Law 2006, amended in 2014,
Civil Aviation Rules and CAAV technical guidance materials.

C. A formal
completion certificate will be issued to participants after satisfactory
completion.

IV.
Structured initial on-the-job training

All technical
inspectors will be included in a formal OJT programme that is tracked and
signed off by specific job task.

(1) The specifics of
that OJT programme are included in the Chapter 5.

(2) Where possible,
OJT for specific tasks will occur following the formal training that is
relevant to the particular job task.

(3) The
implementation of the OJT programme and the sign-off for an individual task is
considered a “baseline” requirement before the unsupervised performance of that
task by a senior inspector.

As an inspector has
completed OJT on a specific task and is signed-off by the senior inspector, he/she
is considered to be qualified to perform the task.

 

CHAPTER 5. ON-THE-JOB TRAINING &
QUALIFICATION

This chapter
describes the OJT programme methodology that will be applied by the CAAV for
the continuing qualification of its inspectors.

I.
General policies

A. The baseline OJT programmes
contained in the respective AMD Training Manual appendices shall be the focus
of future new-hire inspector qualification.

B. Revisions to the
baseline programmes will be permitted with the approval of the AMD Director.

C. All OJT training
will be carried out by senior inspectors with around five (5) years of
experience in auditing in the technical area;

D. All OJT training
will be recorded in the CAAV Training database by the inspectors and their
instructors.

E. All OJT completion
shall be recorded in the Qualification Record database.

F. Baseline OJT
programmes shall be established for all other technical specialties.

II.
OJT configuration

1. Task structure and
assignment

A. The OJT process
will introduce tasks that are categorized first by:

1) Job specialty
(e.g., Movement Area Inspector, RFF Inspector);

2) Duty (e.g. Administration,
Inspection, Safety Issue Resolution, Investigation, Surveillance, Evaluation,
etc.);

3) Function (e.g.,
Inspect Aircraft on the Ramp, Inspect Flight Deck In- Flight, etc.).

B. If any of the
tasks listed, in any category, are not performed in a trainee’s specific
environment, they should not be included in the individual’s training plan.

2. Restrictions

A. Assigning a new
employee an inspector’s credential does not require completing all tasks in OJT.
The required tasks will depend on the employee’s work assignment.

B. Completing OJT is
not tied to promotions. There may be some tasks that an employee never has to
complete because his/her work assignments do not include those tasks.

3. Training structure

A. The Training Structure
of CAAV OJT Programme follows a logical progression of adult learning by using
2 Levels.

1) Level I -
Knowledge and Understanding

2) Level II -
Performance

B. Any task assigned
to a trainee will be trained to all levels unless otherwise deemed unnecessary.
Both formal training and OJT are integral parts of a well- developed training
programme and should be scheduled to complement each other.

III.
Definitions

The following are
definitions of terms related to the CAAV OJT Programme:

OJT: OJT is a planned,
structured training event conducted at a work site by an On-the- Job-Training
(OJT) authorized OJT instructor. This type of training provides direct
experience in the work environment in which the employee is performing or will
be performing on the job.

Task: A unit of work that
contains logical and necessary steps in the performance of a Task in a job
duty, typically with a defined beginning and ending. The task must produce a
meaningful result.

Level I Training: Level I training
usually involves observation of the performance of specific job tasks to
achieve a level of understanding. This training typically involves the trainee
observing and/or assisting the OJT instructor in the performance of those
specific job tasks for which the trainee will be held accountable.

Level II Training: Level II training
involves the application of knowledge and skills to the performance of specific
job tasks. Typically, the trainee performs the job task under the observation
of a qualified OJT instructor. The instructor assesses the performance of the
task and indicates on the trainee’s OJT record when Level II performance is
achieved.

Inspections: One of the most
significant duties of CAAV is to conduct inspections in all areas of air
transportation. The primary objective of inspection activities is to provide
the CAAV with accurate, real-time, comprehensive information for the evaluation
of the safety status of the air transportation system.

Investigations: The means in which
CAAV determines causal factors of potential or actual problem areas and are the
vehicle to effect appropriate corrective action. These work activities are
generated on an “as required” or “as discovered” basis.

Certification: The certification
work activities validate the competency of an aerodrome operator and their
compliance with appropriate statutory and regulatory requirements prior to
active performance in the aviation industry.

Administration: Those functions
performed by trainees that do not fit in Inspections, Evaluations,
Investigations, Certification or Resolution. For example: aviation education
and promoting aviation safety to all segments of the aviation community.

OJT Record: An electronic tool
that is used to record the trainee’s OJT plan, progress, and completion.

OJT Instructor: A trained employee
and a senior inspector with around five (5) years of experience in auditing in
the technical area and designated to provide OJT instruction to trainees on
specific tasks at Levels I, II, and III, in accordance with established
procedures. OJT instructors must have been signed off as competent for the task.

Trainee: Any CAAV employee
receiving on-the-job training. The word “employee” may be used synonymously
with “trainee” depending upon the context because all employees may receive OJT
regardless of any “new hire” or “trainee” status.

IV.
Roles and responsibilities

This section
describes the roles and responsibilities of those involved in the CAAV OJT
programme.

1. HR director

The HR Director is
responsible for:

• Implementing the
provisions of the OJT Programme training requirements for all trainees for whom
direct supervisory oversight is provided.

• Meeting their
obligations as outlined in this chapter.

• Ensuring that
trainees begin their OJT Programme as soon as possible after their date of
employment.

• Forecasting and
informing the Director General OJT needs on a periodic basis so that management
may determine the necessary resources for the programme.

• Update the
standardized, baseline tasks for each position in which each trainee will be
held accountable and for which tasks will require OJT depending on his/her work
assignments.

• Authorizing OJT
levels of credit granted to an employee.

• Assuming the role
of mediator and decision-maker when there are OJT problems and/or disagreements
involving OJT instructors and inspector trainees.

2. AMD director

AMD Director shall be
responsible for:

• Meeting with each
employee to develop an OJT Plan.

• Deciding when OJT
is conducted, including start and end time, as well as the amount of time
required for completing OJT training on specific tasks.

• Reviewing with each
OJT instructor, on a regular basis, the progress of assigned trainees and
initiating any corrective action necessary to improve performance and/or
training deficiencies.

• Attending the
review meeting and if satisfied with trainee’s performance, signing off that
the trainee has successfully completed the tasks discussed.

• Recommending to the
Director General those experienced employees who may be qualified to serve as
OJT instructors and providing feedback on OJT instructor performance
evaluations, including recommending removal of authorization as an OJT
instructor.

• Evaluating OJT
instructor performance annually based on feedback from trainees and trainees
“performance”.

• Acting upon
feedback from trainees concerning the OJT Programme. Either resolve the
situation at their level or ensure that the information is forwarded to whoever
can act on the feedback.

3. OJT instructor

The OJT instructor
shall be responsible for:

• Completing their
OJT training with satisfactory performance.

• Obtaining
authorisation from the Director.

• Ensuring that OJT
instruction is consistent with applicable national regulations and practices.

• Following CAAV
standardized procedures and methodology.

• Exhibiting
objective, constructive, empathetic, and other behaviours conducive to
supporting all OJT trainees.

• Conducting OJT
according to the trainee’s individual training plan as developed by the trainee
and his/her director.

• Assessing the
trainee level of knowledge and skill on specific tasks.

• Providing
structured, well-planned, and documented OJT training with stated objectives
and expected levels of performance.

• Communicating with
Technical Managers about trainee’s progress.

• Informing
appropriate Technical Managers of the trainee’s progress via e-mail or other
written means, indicating date of completion of OJT in specific tasks and
appropriate levels.

• Ensuring that the
trainee has accomplished all elements of OJT instruction associated with a
particular task in an acceptable manner before notifying the appropriate
Technical Manager that the trainee is able to perform the task as required.

• Notifying the
appropriate Technical Manager when tasks have been completed.

• Recording time
spent on OJT in file and file forms.

4. Trainee

The trainee shall be
responsible for:

• Participating with
the Technical Manager to identify developmental needs and to plan training
activities.

• Requesting OJT
credit from their Technical Manager for prior training and/or experience.

• Fulfilling their
OJT requirements as established.

• Participating in
the feedback process to help ensure continual improvement, including feedback
on the performance of the instructor.

• Participating, in a
constructive manner, in its own training progress reviews under this chapter
and checking the accuracy of completed tasks during the review meetings.

• Recording tasks and
activities spent on OJT in file.

V.
OJT Method - Level I

Level I train usually
includes a demonstration, by the instructor or designee, of the specific job
task steps and procedures with the trainee observations and/or assistance to achieve
a level of understanding.

Level I performance
objectives

Following this
training, the trainee will be able to:

• Describe the
sequences of steps to accomplish the task;

• Describe how
appropriate materials are used to accomplish the task;

• Describe
interactions among other CAAV personnel required to accomplish the task;

• Describe
coordination with operator required to accomplish the task.

Conducting Level I
OJT

A. Begin by:

 (1) Gathering any
materials need to perform the task;

 (2) Reviewing the performance
objects for the task and the purpose for Level I training;

B. The accomplishment
of Level I should include a demonstration of the task itself. Do the following
as you conduct this training:

 (1) Explain what you
will be doing by briefly reviewing the task steps;

 (2) Solicit any
questions about the task before you begin;

 (3) Based upon the
task and the comfort level of the trainee, determine whether or not it is
appropriate for the trainee to assist in the task or simply observe you doing
the task;

 (4) You may also
simply ask the trainee their preference - assist or observe;

 (5) Be sure that the
environment is conducive to learning. For example, if you are performing the
task in the field, can the trainee (s) sufficiently see and hear you?

 (6) Ask the trainee
for the next step(s) as you demonstrate the task; and

 (7) Ask questions
about how the step is performed.

C. For tasks that are
largely document-based, actual demonstration may not be applicable. Therefore,
Level I may be based on the review and discussion of sample or completed
documentation. For example, Level I for reviewing a manual could include the
trainee reviewing a manual for which a qualified technical person has already
completed a review. Then comparing the trainee’s review to the qualified
person’s review.

Validating Level I
Completion

To validate Level I OJT,
trainee must have an acceptable response to the following measurements.

Objective

N/A

Unacceptable

Acceptable

Trainee can
 describe the sequence of steps to accomplish the task (as applicable)

 

Cannot describe the
 Sequence of Steps

Describes some step
 sequence

Describes most step
 sequence

Describes all step
 sequences accurately

Trainee can
 describe how appropriate materials are used to accomplish the task

 

Cannot describe use
 of materials

Describes some use
 of materials

Describes most use
 of materials

Describes all material
 use accurately

Trainee can
 describe interactions among other AUTHORITY personnel required to accomplish
 the task

 

Cannot describe the
 Interactions

Describes some
 interactions

Describes most
 interactions accurately

Describes all possible
 interactions accurately

Trainee can
 describe coordination with operator required to accomplish task

 

Cannot Describe
 Operator Coordination

Describes some
 operator coordination

Describes Most
 operator coordination

Describes all
 operator coordination accurately

VI.
OJT Methods - Level II

Level II training
includes the trainee performing the task independently and accurately under the
observation of the OJT instructor.

Level II performance
objectives

Following this
training, the trainee will be able to:

• Demonstrate
sufficient knowledge to complete the task proficiently;

• Complete all steps
necessary to accurately complete the task;

• Complete steps in
the proper order (as applicable);

• Perform the task
without assistance;

• Perform the task in
a timely manner without undue hesitation.

Conducting Level II
OJT

A. Start in on by:

 (1) Reviewing what
was covered in Level I training;

 (2) Reviewing the
performance objectives for the task and the purpose for Level II training;

 (3) Ask the
trainee(s) if he/she has all of the materials necessary to perform the task;

 (4) Explain
expectations - that the trainee will complete the task accurately and without
assistance.

B. Use the following
observation guidelines as the trainee performs the task:

 (1) Check the steps
as you observe using your checklist;

 (2) Assist only if
it required as a part of the task to have a second person. Do not offer
assistance;

 (3) Circle omitted
or incorrect steps to address with the trainee once the task is complete;

 (4) STOP for unsafe or
illegal actions; discuss them with the trainee immediately before completing
the task.

C. Some task may
infrequently, or even never, present an opportunity for an instructor to
observe a trainee perform (for example, safety measure inspections or accident
investigations).

Validating Level II
completion

To validate Level II
OJT, the instructor must be able to answer “Yes” to all of the following:

Objective

N/A

Yes

No

Did the trainee
 demonstrate sufficient knowledge to complete the task proficiently?

 

 

 

Did the trainee complete
 all steps necessary to accurately complete the task?

 

 

 

Were the steps
 completed in the proper order (if applicable)?

 

 

 

Did the trainee
 perform the task without assistance?

 

 

 

Did the trainee
 perform the task in a timely manner without undue hesitation?

 

 

 

Did the trainee
 properly record the completion of the task in the database?

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER 6. TECHNICALLY QUALIFIED INSPECTORS

The organisation of
AMD’s safety oversight responsibilities relies heavily on the employment and
qualification of aerodrome inspectors (ADI).

These ADI conduct the
necessary evaluations and inspections of aerodrome operators, individuals, and
organisations to ensure conformance with international safety standards and
relevant safety practises.

This chapter outlines
the basis concept that are applied for the utilisation of these ADI

I.
Technical inspectors

Qualified technical
inspectors

A. The AMD is staffed
with qualified technical personnel to carry out the aviation safety oversight
functions

 (1) These personnel
are employed based on specified minimum knowledge and experience qualification
prerequisites necessary to function as entry- level technical personnel.

 (2) They receive
specified baseline and OJT training after employment to qualify them to
function as aerodrome inspectors (ADI)

 (3) They also
receive recurrent and specialised trainings that are pertinent to their job
assignment

B. The qualified ADI
is the key link to ensure that the State’s international safety oversight
obligations are met. The technical decisions of these qualified ADI will, when
properly recorded in a permanent medium, form the basis for the credibility of
Vietnam’s aviation safety oversight programme.

II.
ADI positions

These technical ADI
positions include:

- Movement Area
Inspector (ADI-1)

- Visual Aids and
Electrical Systems Inspector (ADI-2)

- Operating
Procedures and Safety Measures Inspector (ADI-3)

- Rescue and Fire
Fighting Inspector (ADI-4)

1.
Movement Area Inspector

1.1. Function:

The Movement Areas
Inspector (ADI-1) is employed to perform aerodrome safety oversight tasks on
behalf of AMD to determine the operator’s conformance with the regulations and
relevant safety practices.

1.2. Primary task:

A. The primary safety
oversight tasks performed by ADI-1 will include:

 (1) Technical
administration of the performance and completion of movement area
operation-related safety oversight tasks;

 (2) Technical evaluation
and inspection of the operators and other supporting organisations;

 (3) Technical
evaluation, inspection and observation of the personnel employed by operator;

 (4) Recommendations
for approval or acceptance of operator’s documentation and authorisation;

 (5) Initial and on-going
certification of operator;

 (6) MARI inspections
are planned and assigned to specific inspectors;

(7) MARI inspections
are accomplished in the assigned annual quarter, as planned. 

B. The completion of
these task will specifically address the acceptability and usability of
programmes and practices of the operators and supporting organisation with
respect to:

 (1) Aerodrome
dimension and related information;

 (2) Physical
characteristics;

 (3) Pavement
strength evaluation;

 (4) Maintenance of
movement area.

1.3. Minimum
Qualification Requirement

To function as an
ADI-1, the individual is required to have completed the minimum qualifications
requirements for original employment as a technical inspector, preferably with
construction engineering University degree.

During the period of
qualification for inspector assignment, ADI-1 will receive on-going formal, and
OJT as specified in the training manual, including the specialised training for
Airfield Pavement design and evaluation.

Within 01-year-old
employment, the AD1-1 must complete the baseline formal training requirements.

Failure to archive
the training objectives as stated above may result in termination of
employment.

2.
Visual Aids and Electrical System Inspector

2.1. Function:

The Visual aids and
Electrical System Inspector (ADI-2) is employed to perform aerodrome safety
oversight tasks on behalf of AMD to determine the operator’s conformance with
the regulations and relevant safety practices.

2.2. Primary task:

A. The primary safety
oversight tasks performed by ADI-2 will include:

 (1) Technical
administration of the performance and completion of Visual aids and

Electrical system
operation-related safety oversight tasks;

 (2) Technical evaluation
and inspection of the operators and other supporting organisations;

 (3) Technical
evaluation, inspection and observation of the personnel employed by operator;

 (4) Recommendations
for approval or acceptance of operator’s documentation and authorisation;

 (5) Initial and
on-going certification of operator;

 (6) MARI inspections
are planned and assigned to specific inspectors;

 (7) MARI inspections
are accomplished in the assigned annual quarter, as planned.

B. The completion of
these task will specifically address the acceptability and usability of
programmes and practices of the operators and supporting organisation with
respect to:

 (1) Visual aids
including markings, signs, light, VDGS, SMGCS;

 (2) Electrical
systems, power supplies;

 (3) Routine and
emergency maintenance;

 (4) Low visibility
Operation;

 (5) Obstacle
control, protection sides for radar and navigation aids.

2.3. Minimum
Qualification Requirement

To function as an
ADI-2, the individual is required to have completed the minimum qualifications
requirements for original employment as a technical inspector, preferably with
electrical/electronic engineering, air navigation University degree.

During the period of
qualification for inspector assignment, ADI-2 will receive on-going formal and
OJT as specified in the training manual, including the specialised training for
Airfield Lighting operation and maintenance.

Within 01 year of
employment, the AD1-2 must complete the baseline formal training requirements.

Failure to archive
the training objectives as stated above may result in termination of employment.

3.
Operating Procedure and Safety Measure Inspector

3.1. Function:

The Operating
procedure and safety measure Inspector (ADI - 3) is employed to perform
aerodrome safety oversight tasks on behalf of AMD to determine the operator’s
conformance with the regulations and relevant safety practices.

3.2. Primary task:

A. The primary safety
oversight tasks performed by ADI-3 will include:

 (1) Technical administration
of the performance and completion of Operating Procedure and Safety Measure
-related safety oversight tasks;

 (2) Technical evaluation
and inspection of the operators and other supporting organisations;

 (3) Technical
evaluation, inspection and observation of the personnel employed by operator;

 (4) Recommendations
for approval or acceptance of operator’s documentation and authorisation;

 (5) Initial and
on-going certification of operator;

 (6) MARI inspections
are planned and assigned to specific inspectors;

(7) MARI inspections
are accomplished in the assigned annual quarter, as planned. B. The completion
of these task will specifically address the acceptability and usability of
programmes and practices of the operators and supporting organisation with
respect to:

 (1) Aerodrome
reporting;

 (2) Movement area
safety measure; 

 (3) Wildlife hazard
management; 

 (4) Removal of
disabled aircraft;

 (5) Handling of
hazardous materials;

 (6) Safety
Management System (SMS).

3.3. Minimum
Qualification Requirement

To function as an
ADI-3, the individual is required to have completed the minimum qualifications
requirements for original employment as a technical inspector.

During the period of
qualification for inspector assignment, ADI-3 will receive on-going formal and
OJT as specified in the training manual, including the specialised training for
Wildlife Management...

Within 01 year of
employment, the ADI-3 must complete the baseline formal training requirements.

Failure to archive
the training objectives as stated above may result in termination of
employment.

4. Rescue and Fire
Fighting Inspector

4.1. Function:

The Rescue and Fire
Fighting Inspector (ADI - 4) is employed to perform aerodrome safety oversight
tasks on behalf of AMD to determine the operator’s conformance with the
regulations and relevant safety practices.

4.2. Primary task:

A. The primary safety
oversight tasks performed by ADI-4 will include:

 (1) Technical
administration of the performance and completion of Rescue and Fire Fighting
-related safety oversight tasks;

 (2) Technical evaluation
and inspection of the operators and other supporting organisations;

 (3) Technical
evaluation, inspection and observation of the personnel employed by operator;

 (4) Recommendations
for approval or acceptance of operator’s documentation and authorisation;

 (5) Initial and
on-going certification of operator;

 (6) MARI inspections
are planned and assigned to specific inspectors;

 (7) MARI inspections
are accomplished in the assigned annual quarter, as planned. 

B. The completion of
these task will specifically address the acceptability and usability of programmes
and practices of the operators and supporting organisation with respect to:

 (1) Particulars of
the facilities, equipment;

 (2) Procedures;

 (3) Personnel to
meet the RFF requirement;

 (4) Aerodrome
emergency plan (AEP).

4.3. Minimum
Qualification Requirement

To function as an
ADI-4, the individual is required to have completed the minimum qualifications
requirements for original employment as a technical inspector.

During the period of
qualification for inspector assignment, ADI-4 will receive on-going formal and
OJT as specified in the training manual, including the specialised training for
RFF.

Within 01 year of
employment, the AD1-4 must complete the baseline formal training requirements.

Failure to archive
the training objectives as stated above may result in termination of
employment.

 

APPENDIX 1. SUMMARY OF ADI EXPERIENCE

PERSONAL DETAILS

Name:                                           Designation:

Employment
No.                           Date Employment Commencement:

QUALIFICATION /EXPERIENCE

Minimum
Qualification Requirement for recruitment as an Aerodrome Inspector are as
follows:

• Hold a
current University degree.

• English
capability with minimum TOEIC 450 or equivalent.

• Minimum
of 05 years work experience in aerodrome management and operation for those
with Engineering University decrees or 07 years work experience in aerodrome
management and operation for those with other University degrees.

• Sound
knowledge of Annex 14, Volume I and all relevant ICAO manuals.

• Sound
knowledge of the aerodrome related regulations (Civil Aviation Law and Regulations)
and associated guidance materials.

(1a)
 Qualification

Training

University/Institution

Achievement

Verified by HR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1b)
 Industry/Regulatory Experience

AD Operator / State

Position Held

No. of Years

Verified by HR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX 2. ADI TRAINING PROGRAME

PHASE 1- INITIAL/BASIC
TRAINING

INTRODUCTION
TO CAAV & SAFETY REGULATION

 

Course

Activity

Duration

Trainer

Courses conducted
 in Vietnam

7101-CAAV

Vietnam
 Civil Aviation system and legislative framework.

05-07
 days

CAAV
 Senior executive/ Instructor or any other specialised institute

7102-CAAV

Overview
 of CAAV: Functions and Duties.

7103-CAAV

Overview
 of Regional Airport Authority: Functions and Duties.

7104-CAAV

Vietnam
 Civil Aviation Law: Airport Provision

7105-CAAV

Government
 Decrees, Ministry Circulars pertaining airport Operation and Management

7106-CAAV

CAAV
 Advisory Circulars

7107-CAAV

Overview
 ICAO Annex 1-19

7108-CAAV

ICAO
 Universal Safety Oversight Audit Programme (USOAP)

7109-CAAV

ICAO
 Continuous Monitoring Approach (CMA) Protocol Questions (PQs)

7110-CAAV

State
 Safety Programme of Vietnam

7111-CAAV

ADI
 Duties and Code of Conduct

7112-CAAV

ADI
 Authorisation/Credential

7113-CAAV

ADI
 Training requirements

PHASE 2- CORE
(REGULATORY) TRAINING

BASIC
SAFETY OVERSIGHT COURSE

To
be completed within the first 18 months of employment.

 

Course

Activity

Duration

Trainer

Classroom/ Virtual

Online

Courses conducted
 either in Vietnam or abroad

7214-CAAV

ICAO
 Annex 14 and its application

03-05
 days

03-05
 days

CAAV
 Senior executive/ Instructor or any other specialised institute

7215-CAAV

Aviation
 Audit Technique

03-05
 days

03-05
 days

7216-CAAV

Aerodrome
 Certification: 

- ICAO Doc 9774,
 Doc 9981 

- CAAV Aerodrome Certification
 Manual

03-05
 days

03-05
 days

7217-CAAV

Aerodrome
 Inspection: - CAAV Aerodrome Inspector Manual

03-05
 days

03-05
 days

7218-CAAV

Aerodrome
 Safety Management System incorporating PANS - Aerodrome

02-05
 days

02-05
 days

7219-CAAV

Human
 Factor Principle

02-05
 days

02-05
 days

PHASE 3- ON THE JOB
TRAINING

LEVEL
1- OBSERVE AND PARTICIPATE

 

Course

Activity

Duration

Trainer

Courses conducted
 in Vietnam

7320-CAAV

Observe and
 Participate in Aerodrome Certification/Re- certification process

As
 per surveillance inspection plan

CAA
 Aerodrome Inspector

7321-CAAV

Observe and
 Participate in Aerodrome safety inspection/surveillance process

7322-CAAV

Observe and
 participate in Aeronautical Study

LEVEL
2- CONDUCT ACTIVITIES UNDER SUPERVISION

 

Course

Activity

Duration

Trainer

Courses
 conducted in Vietnam

7323-CAAV

Conduct Aerodrome Certification/Re-certification
 process

As
 per surveillance inspection plan

CAA
 Aerodrome Inspector

7324-CAAV

Conduct Aerodrome
 safety inspection/surveillance process

7325-CAAV

Conduct
 Aeronautical Study

PHASE 4- RECURRENT/REFRESHER/CONTINUATION
TRAINING

To be conducted every
2 years’ intervals for those inspectors having completed the initial/core
training course.

 

Course

Activity

Duration

Trainer

Courses
 conducted in Vietnam

7426-CAAV

Refresher ADI
 Safety Oversight Course

By
 Instructor/Training institute

CAAV
 Senior executive/ Instructor or any other specialised institute

7427-CAAV

Refresher on
 Auditing techniques and CAAV auditing procedures

7428-CAAV

Refresher on Safety
 management system and quality management system training

7429-CAAV

Refresher on Human
 factors principles

PHASE 5- SPECIALISED
TRAINING

ADI position

Course

Activity

Duration

Trainer

Level
 of priority

Classroom/ Virtual

Online

ADI-1

7530-CAAV

Airfield Pavement Design
 and Evaluation

03-05
 days

Offered
 by Training institute

CAAV
 Senior executive/ Instructor or any other specialised institute

1

ADI-1

7531-CAAV

Global Reporting Format
 (Runway)

02
 days

1

ADI-2

7532-CAAV

Airfield Lighting Operation
 and Maintenance/Runways and Taxiways Visual Aids & Apron Visual Aids

03-05
 days

1

ADI-4

7533-CAAV

Rescue and Firefighting

On
 request

1

ADI-3

7534-CAAV

Wildlife Hazard Management

02-05
 days

1

ADI

7535-CAAV

Runway Safety

02-05
 days

2

7536-CAAV

Operational Hazard Identification
 and Risk Management/ Aeronautical Studies and Risk Analysis

03-05
 days

2

7537-CAAV

Accident/Incident Investigation

02-05
 days

2

7538-CAAV

Aerodrome Obstacles
 Evaluation

02-05
 days

2

7539-CAAV

Airside Safety Training

02-05
 days

2

7540-CAAV

Apron Safety and Operations
 Management

02-05
 days

2

7541-CAAV

Foreign Object
 Debris (FOD) Prevention

02-05
 days

2

7542-CAAV

Managing Operations
 During Construction

02-05
 days

2

7543-CAAV

Emergency
 Preparedness and Contingency Planning

02-05
 days

2

7544-CAAV

Enforcement Policy
 & Procedure

01-02
 days

2

7545-CAAV

Airport Master Planning

02-05
 days

2

APPENDIX 3. TRAINING ROAD MAP FOR
AERODROME INSPECTOR

 

APPENDIX 4. TRAINING NEEDS ANALYSIS

Name:                              Position:
Aerodrome Inspector                         Date Compiled:

 

 

Type
 of Training Recommended

Minimum
 Qualifications Requirements (MQR) for the Position

MQR
 Already Possessed?

Introduction
 / initial

Core Training

On
 Job
Training

Re-currency Training

Specialized
 / Advance / Professional Development Training

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Employee:................................................
      Date: ........................................................

AMD Director:
..........................................      Date:
........................................................

HRDirector:
..............................................      Date:
........................................................

 

APPENDIX 5: METHODOLOGY IN DETERMINING THE
NUMBER OF AERODROME SAFETY INSPECTORS

AMD has developed and
established the methodology in determining aerodrome safety inspector needs to
carry out all safety oversight related task, including review and revision of
regulations, training of technical staff, development of guidance material,
issuance of approvals, conducting of surveillance and resolution of identified
safety concerns. Basically, the number of inspectors required are derived from
the following formula: [TOTAL MAN-DAYS REQUIRED FOR ALL RESPONSIBILITIES]
divided by [TOTAL WORKING DAYS PER YEAR].

The details in
determining aerodrome safety inspector needs are as follow:

STT

Activity

Frequency (times/year)

Required
 man- hour/mission

Required
 man- hour/year

ADI- 1

ADI- 2

ADI- 3

ADI- 4

Aerodrome Inspector

A

MAIN DUTIES OF AGA
 CASI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I

Carry out all
 functions relating to the certification of aerodrome

 

 

372

 

 

 

 

 

Thực hiện các chức
 năng liên quan đến giấy chứng nhận khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay

1

Evaluate
 certification document from applicant

1

4

4

1

1

1

1

All
 ADIs

Đánh giá hồ sơ, tài
 liệu từ người đề nghị

2

Technical
 inspections of the infrastructure of the aerodrome and its equipment

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kiểm tra kỹ thuật
 cơ sở hạ tầng của sân bay và các thiết bị

2.1

Obstacle
 restrictions

1

16

16

0

16

0

0

ADI-2

2.2

Physical
 characteristics (runways; taxiways; service roads; holding bays,
 runway-holding positions and intermediate holding positions…); Electrical
 system; Visual aids (markings; signs; lights; markers; indicators…)

1

72

72

36

36

0

0

ADI-1;
 ADI-2

2.3

RFF services (Level
 of protection; RFF personnel; Response; Rescue equipment…)

1

16

16

0

0

0

16

ADI-4

2.4

Wildlife Hazard
 Management (Equipment; Fences; Procedure for discouraging the presence of
 wildlife; Procedure for record and analyse the incidents, collect the
 wildlife’s remains, monitor the corrective actions to be taken subsequently,
 report to the State incidents involving wildlife...)

1

16

16

0

0

16

0

ADI-3

3

Approval the
 Aerodrome Manual (all the procedures related to aerodrome certification that
 will be assessed by the on-site verification team are provided in the
 aerodrome manual)

1

80

80

20

20

20

20

All
 ADIs

Xác minh dữ liệu và
 phê duyệt Tài liệu khai thác sân bay

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

On-site
 verification of Aerodrome Operator's procedures and SMS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Xác minh các quy
 trình và hệ thống quản lý an toàn của người khai thác CHKSB

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.1

On-site
 verification of the operator's procedures

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.1.1

Aerodrome data and
 reporting;

1

4

4

1

1

1

1

All
 ADIs

4.1.2

Access to the
 movement area;

1

4

4

4

0

0

0

ADI-1

4.1.3

Aerodrome emergency
 plan;

1

8

8

0

0

0

8

ADI-4

4.1.4

Rescue and
 firefighting (RFF);

1

8

8

0

0

0

8

ADI-4

4.1.5

Inspection of the
 movement area;

1

4

4

4

0

0

0

ADI-1

4.1.6

Maintenance of the
 movement area;

1

4

4

4

0

0

0

ADI-1

4.1.7

Snow and ice
 control, and other hazardous meteorological conditions;

1

4

4

4

0

0

0

ADI-1

4.1.8

Visual aids and
 aerodrome electrical systems;

1

8

8

0

8

0

0

ADI-2

4.1.9

Safety during
 aerodrome works;

1

2

2

0

0

2

0

ADI-3

4.1.10

Apron management;

1

4

4

0

0

4

0

ADI-3

4.1.11

Apron safety;

1

4

4

0

0

4

0

ADI-3

4.1.12

Vehicles on the
 movement area;

1

4

4

0

0

4

0

ADI-3

4.1.13

Wildlife hazard
 management;

1

8

8

0

0

8

0

ADI-3

4.1.14

Obstacles;

1

4

4

0

4

0

0

ADI-2

4.1.15

Removal of a
 disabled aircraft;

1

4

4

0

0

4

0

ADI-3

4.1.16

Handling of
 dangerous goods

1

4

4

0

0

4

0

ADI-3

4.1.17

Low visibility
 operations;

1

4

4

0

0

4

0

ADI-3

4.1.18

Protection of sites
 for radar and navigation aids

1

2

2

0

2

0

0

ADI-2

4.1.19

Reporting of Runway
 surface conditions

1

4

4

4

0

0

0

ADI-1

4.1.20

Competence of
 Aerodrome Personnel

1

8

8

0

0

8

0

ADI-3

4.2

On-site
 verification of the SMS

1

16

16

0

0

16

0

ADI-3

5

Analysis of the
 findings; approval non-compliance list; follow-up and monitoring of the
 related corrective action plans

1

24

24

6

6

6

6

All
 ADIs

Phân tích các phát
 hiện; phê duyệt danh mục không đáp ứng; kiểm tra, theo dõi kế hoạch hành động
 khắc phục

6

Issuance of the
 certificate

1

8

8

2

2

2

2

All
 ADIs

Phát hành Giấy
 chứng nhận khai thác CHKSB

7

Promulgation of the
 status of certification in the AIP

1

24

24

6

6

6

6

All
 ADIs

Ban hành Giấy chứng
 nhận trên AIP

II

Carry out
 comprehensive safety audit

 

 

1500

 

 

 

 

 

Thực hiện giám sát
 an toàn sân bay toàn diện

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1

Plan comprehensive
 aerodrome safety oversight (Periodically at least every 2 years as regulation
 on Clause 12 Article 8 Decree 05/2021/ND- CP
 dated 25/01/2021)

0.5

8

4

1

1

1

1

All
 ADIs

Lập kế hoạch cho
 các hành động giám sát an toàn sân bay toàn diện (Tối thiểu 02 năm/lần theo
 quy định tại khoản 12 Điều 8 Nghị định 05/2021/NĐ-CP ngày 25/01/2021)

2

On-site
 verifications

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Xác minh tại chỗ

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.1

On-site
 verification of the operator's procedures

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.1.1

Aerodrome data and
 reporting;

11

4

44

11

11

11

11

All
 ADIs

2.1.2

Access to the
 movement area;

11

4

44

44

0

0

0

ADI-1

2.1.3

Aerodrome emergency
 plan;

11

8

88

0

0

0

88

ADI-4

2.1.4

Rescue and
 firefighting (RFF);

11

8

88

0

0

0

88

ADI-4

2.1.5

Inspection of the
 movement area;

11

4

44

44

0

0

0

ADI-1

2.1.6

Maintenance of the
 movement area;

11

4

44

44

0

0

0

ADI-1

2.1.7

Snow and ice
 control, and other hazardous meteorological conditions;

11

4

44

44

0

0

0

ADI-1

2.1.8

Visual aids and
 aerodrome electrical systems;

11

8

88

0

88

0

0

ADI-2

2.1.9

Safety during
 aerodrome works;

11

2

22

0

0

22

0

ADI-3

2.1.10

Apron management;

11

4

44

0

0

44

0

ADI-3

2.1.11

Apron safety;

11

4

44

0

0

44

0

ADI-3

2.1.12

Vehicles on the
 movement area;

11

4

44

0

0

44

0

ADI-3

2.1.13

Wildlife hazard
 management;

11

8

88

0

0

88

0

ADI-3

2.1.14

Obstacles;

11

4

44

0

44

0

0

ADI-2

2.1.15

Removal of a
 disabled aircraft;

11

4

44

0

0

44

0

ADI-3

2.1.16

Handling of
 dangerous goods

11

4

44

0

0

44

0

ADI-3

2.1.17

Low visibility
 operations;

11

4

44

0

0

44

0

ADI-3

2.1.18

Protection of sites
 for radar and navigation aids

11

2

22

0

22

0

0

ADI-2

2.1.19

Reporting of Runway
 surface conditions

11

4

44

44

0

0

0

ADI-1

2.1.20

Competence of
 Aerodrome Personnel

11

8

88

0

0

88

0

ADI-3

2.2

On-site
 verification of the SMS

11

16

176

0

0

176

0

ADI-3

3

Prepare Audit/Inspection
 report

11

8

88

22

22

22

22

All
 ADIs

Báo cáo kế hoạch
 thanh tra, kiểm tra

4

Follow-up on
 corrective action plan, resolution of safety issues and report enforcement to
 the aviation inspectorate

11

8

88

22

22

22

22

All
 ADIs

Theo dõi kế hoạch
 hành động khắc phục, giải quyết các vấn đề an toàn và chuyển thi hành xử phạt
 cho thanh tra hàng không

5

Maintain and manage
 aerodrome records

11

8

88

22

22

22

22

All
 ADIs

Duy trì và quản lý
 các biên bản làm việc

III

 

Carry out aerodrome
 safety oversight

 

 

1236

 

 

 

 

 

 

Thực hiện kế hoạch
 giám sát an toàn sân bay

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1

Develop
 surveillance prgramme (Depend on compliance and the size of the airport)

0.5

8

4

1

1

1

1

All
 ADIs

Xây dựng chương
 trình giám sát (Tùy thuộc vào sự tuân thủ và quy mô của sân bay)

2

Continued aerodrome
 surveillance

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Giám sát sân bay
 liên tục

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.1

Technical
 inspections

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.1.1

Obstacle
 restrictions

11

8

88

0

88

0

0

ADI-2

2.1.2

Physical
 characteristics (runways; taxiways; service roads; holding bays,
 runway-holding positions and intermediate holding positions…); Electrical
 system; Visual aids (markings; signs; lights; markers; indicators…)

11

36

396

198

198

0

0

ADI-1;
 ADI-2

2.1.3

RFF services (Level
 of protection; RFF personnel; Response; Rescue equipment…)

11

8

88

0

0

0

88

ADI-4

2.1.4

Wildlife Hazard
 Management (Equipment; Fences; Procedure for discouraging the presence of
 wildlife; Procedure for record and analyse the incidents, collect the
 wildlife’s remains, monitor the corrective actions to be taken subsequently,
 report to the State incidents involving wildlife...)

11

8

88

0

0

88

0

ADI-3

2.2

Inspection of
 selected items

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.2.1

Aerodrome emergency
 plan;

11

4

44

0

0

0

44

ADI-4

2.2.2

SMS (Safety
 Management Manual; Status of Implementation; Compliance of SMS; Safety data
 reporting and recording system; Training, seminar, workshop...)

11

8

88

0

0

88

0

ADI-3

2.2.3

Other…

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3

Prepare Audit/Inspection
 report

11

8

88

22

22

22

22

All
 ADIs

Báo cáo kế hoạch
 thanh tra, kiểm tra

4

Follow-up on
 corrective action plan, resolution of safety issues and report enforcement to
 the aviation inspectorate

11

8

88

22

22

22

22

All
 ADIs

Theo dõi kế hoạch
 hành động khắc phục, giải quyết các vấn đề an toàn và chuyển thi hành xử phạt
 cho thanh tra hàng không

5

Maintain and manage
 aerodrome records

11

8

88

22

22

22

22

All
 ADIs

Duy trì và quản lý
 các biên bản làm việc

6

Unannounced
 inspections

11

16

176

44

44

44

44

All
 ADIs

Kiểm tra không
 thông báo trước

IV

 

Management of
 change to procedures, equipment, infrastructures and special operations

 

 

1320

 

 

 

 

 

Quản lý sự thay đổi
 các quy trình, trang thiết bị, cơ sở hạ tầng và các khai thác đặc biệt

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1

Approval for the
 plan to ensure safety and security upon construction, renovation, upgrading,
 maintenance and repair of works, and installation and maintenance of
 equipment within aerodromes, which changes the plan to operate runways,
 taxiways, aprons or changes the plan to operate the system of air navigation
 equipment.

22

8

176

44

44

44

44

All
 ADIs

Chấp thuận phương
 án đảm bảo an ninh, an toàn đối với hoạt động xây dựng, cải tạo, nâng cấp,
 bảo trì, sửa chữa công trình, lắp đặt, bảo dưỡng, sửa chữa thiết bị trong khu
 vực cảng hàng không, sân bay có làm thay đổi phương án khai thác đường cất hạ
 cánh, đường lăn, sân đỗ tàu bay hoặc làm thay đổi phương án khai thác hệ
 thống thiết bị đảm bảo hoạt động bay

 

Changes in the
 characteristics of infrastructures or the equipment;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Changes in the
 characteristics of the facilities and systems located in the movement area;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Changes in runway
 operations (e.g. type of approach, runway infrastructure, holding positions);

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Changes to the
 aerodrome networks (e.g. electrical and telecommunication);

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Changes to the
 organizational structure of the aerodrome

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Changes to the
 operating procedures of the aerodrome

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2

Changes that affect
 conditions as specified in the aerodrome’s

certificate;

11

8

88

22

22

22

22

All
 ADIs

Cấp, cấp lại, sửa
 đổi nội dung Giấy chứng nhận khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay

3

Changes to
 aerodrome infrastructure require procedures for putting into operation or
 temporary suspension (Runway, taxiway, apron…)

22

8

176

44

44

44

44

All
 ADIs

Đưa công trình
 thuộc kết cấu hạ tầng sân bay vào khai thác hoặc đóng tạm thời công trình
 hoặc một phần công trình (đường cất hạ cánh, đường lăn, sân đỗ tàu bay…)

4

Updating of the
 aerodrome manual

22

40

880

220

220

220

220

All
 ADIs

Sửa đổi Tài liệu
 khai thác sân bay

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B

OVERHEAD

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I

Establish the
 Aerodromes Regulation and update according to the Law on Civil Aviation of
 Vietnam and referring to ICAO Standards

 

 

80

 

 

 

 

 

Thiết lập quy định
 về cảng hàng không, sân bay và cập nhật theo Luật
 Hàng không dân dụng Việt Nam, tham chiếu các tiêu chuẩn của ICAO

1

Annex 14, 19 and
 related Doc

5

40

200

50

50

50

50

All
 ADIs

Phụ ước 14, 19 và
 các Hướng dẫn liên quan

2

Civil Aviation Law,
 Government Decree and Minitry Circular

5

40

200

50

50

50

50

All
 ADIs

Luật
 Hàng không dân dụng Việt Nam, Nghị định của Chính Phủ và Thông tư của
 Bộ

II

Establish the
 technical guidelines related to the Airport Safety Operation and update existing
 document as per Aerodromes Regulation and ICAO annexes

 

 

296

 

 

 

 

 

Thiết lập các hướng
 dẫn kỹ thuật liên quan đến việc khai thác an toàn cảng hàng không, sân bay và
 cập nhật vào các tài liệu hiện có theo quy định về hàng không và Phụ ước của
 ICAO

1

Aerodrome Design,
 Operations and Safety Manual

1

40

40

10

10

10

10

All
 ADIs

Sổ tay hướng dẫn
 thiết kế, khai thác, bảo đảm an toàn khai thác tại sân bay

2

Aerodrome
 Inspection Manual

1

40

40

10

10

10

10

All
 ADIs

Sổ tay Giám sát
 viên an toàn khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay

3

Aerodrome
 Certification Procedure Manual

1

16

16

4

4

4

4

All
 ADIs

Sổ tay hướng dẫn
 cấp Giấy chứng nhận khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay

4

Guidance on
 Aerodrome Manual

1

16

16

4

4

4

4

All
 ADIs

Sổ tay hướng dẫn
 lập Tài liệu khai thác sân bay

5

Procedures for
 Acceping non-compliances in Aerodrome and Exemptions Policy

1

16

16

4

4

4

4

All
 ADIs

Quy trình chấp
 thuận miễn trừ/nhân nhượng theo danh mục không đáp ứng tại sân bay

6

Manual on
 evaluation of the outcome of the Aeronautical studies/Risk assessments

1

16

16

4

4

4

4

All
 ADIs

Sổ tay hướng dẫn
 đánh giá kết quả Nghiên cứu hàng không/Đánh giá rủi ro

7

Aerodrome Inspector
 Training Manual

1

16

16

0

0

16

0

ADI-3

Sổ tay chương trình
 đào tạo giám sát viên an toàn khai thác CHKSB

8

Wildlife Hazard
 Management Manual

1

16

16

0

0

16

0

ADI-3

Sổ tay hướng dẫn
 kiểm soát chim, ĐVHD, vật nuôi tại CHKSB

9

Guidance on Surface
 Movement Guidance and Control System

(SMGCS)

1

40

40

0

40

0

0

ADI-2

Sổ tay hướng dẫn Hệ
 thống kiểm soát và hướng dẫn di chuyển trên bề mặt (SMGCS)

10

Other Advisory
 Circulars pertaining Airport Operation and Management

5

16

80

20

20

20

20

All
 ADIs

Các Thông tư khác
 liên quan đến khai thác và quản lý cảng hàng không, sân bay

III

Aeronautical
 studies at aerodromes:conduct aeronautical studies when needed, if necessary
 in cooperation with other Departments.

22

16

352

88

88

88

88

All
 ADIs

Nghiên cứu hàng
 không tại sân bay; quản lý (kiểm soát) nghiên cứu hàng không khi cần, phối
 hợp với các Phòng khác nếu cần thiết

IV

Assist aerodrome
 operator for required technical advice and certification of safety concerns

22

16

352

88

88

88

88

All
 ADIs

Hỗ trợ người khai thác
 cảng trong việc đưa ra lời khuyên về các kỹ thuật được yêu cầu và các yếu tổ
 liên quan đến an toàn khi cấp giấy chứng nhận

V

Accident/incident
 Investigation

 

 

720

 

 

 

 

 

Điều tra tai nạn,
 sự cố

1

Establish
 Investigation team, gather information

10

8

80

20

20

20

20

All
 ADIs

Thành lập đội điều
 tra, thu thập thông tin

2

Investigate,
 verify, analyse accident/incident

10

40

400

100

100

100

100

All
 ADIs

Điều tra, xác minh,
 phân tích tai nạn/ sự cố

3

Prepare report to
 concerned parties

10

8

80

20

20

20

20

All
 ADIs

Chuẩn bị báo cáo
 tới với các bên liên quan

4

Publish report and
 follow up corrective action

10

16

160

40

40

40

40

All
 ADIs

Ban hành báo cáo và
 đưa ra cách hành động khắc phục sau đó

VI

Report

 

 

112

 

 

 

 

 

Báo cáo

1

Monthly Report

12

4

48

12

12

12

12

All
 ADIs

Báo cáo tháng

2

Quadrant report

4

8

32

8

8

8

8

All
 ADIs

Báo cáo quý

3

Half-year report

2

8

16

4

4

4

4

All
 ADIs

Báo cáo 6 tháng

4

Annual report

1

16

16

4

4

4

4

All
 ADIs

Báo cáo năm

VII

Other

 

 

496

 

 

 

 

 

Khác

1

Implement Training
 Plan

2

32

64

16

16

16

16

All
 ADIs

Thực hiện kế hoạch
 đào tạo

2

Attend safety
 seminars

4

8

32

8

8

8

8

All
 ADIs

Tham gia các hội
 nghị (hội thảo) chuyên đề về an toàn

3

Prepare for ICVM
 Corrective Action Plan for (AGA)

10

40

400

100

100

100

100

All
 ADIs

Chuẩn bị cho các
 hành động khắc phục theo khuyến cáo cáo ICAO trong đợt thanh tra đánh giá của
 ICAO

C

Total

 

 

6836

1693

1765

2139

1559

 

 

Information on
Overheads: Overheads
are other tasks that an inspector may perform beyond his core inspection
functions. These may include development of procedures, participation in rule
development, training, or international work.

Estimated Overhead: The estimated
overhead is expressed as a percentage of the inspector's time.--- THÔNG TIN THÊM ---
Ten: Quyết định 901/QĐ-CHK năm 2024 Sổ tay hướng dẫn đào tạo cho chuyên viên kỹ thuật và giám sát viên an toàn khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay (Technical staff/Inspectors) (tu chỉnh lần 3) do Cục trưởng Cục Hàng không Việt Nam ban hành
So hieu: 901/QĐ-CHK
Loai van ban: Quyết định
Linh vuc nganh: Lao động - Tiền lương, Giao thông - Vận tải
Noi ban hanh: Cục Hàng không Việt Nam
Nguoi ky: Đinh Việt Thắng
Ngay ban hanh: 19/04/2024
Ngay hieu luc: 19/04/2024
Ngay dang: Dữ liệu đang cập nhật
So cong bao: Dữ liệu đang cập nhật
Tinh trang: Còn hiệu lực


--- MỤC LỤC ---
- QUYẾT ĐỊNH VỀ VIỆC BAN HÀNH SỔ TAY HƯỚNG DẪN ĐÀO TẠO CHO CHUYÊN VIÊN KỸ THUẬT VÀ GIÁM SÁT VIÊN AN TOÀN KHAI THÁC CẢNG HÀNG KHÔNG, SÂN BAY (TECHNICAL STAFF/INSPECTORS) (TU CHỈNH LẦN 3)
  - Điều 1. Ban hành kèm theo Quyết định này Sổ tay hướng dẫn đào tạo cho chuyên viên kỹ thuật và giám sát viên an toàn khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay
  - Điều 2. Quyết định này có hiệu lực kể từ ngày ký và thay thế Quyết định số 2339/QĐ-CHK ngày 27/10/2023 của Cục trưởng Cục Hàng không Việt Nam về việc ban hành Sổ tay hướng dẫn đào tạo giám sát viên an toàn khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay.
  - Điều 3. Các ông/bà: Chánh Thanh tra Cục Hàng không Việt Nam; Trưởng phòng Quản lý cảng hàng không, sân bay; Thủ trưởng các cơ quan, đơn vị và cá nhân liên quan chịu trách nhiệm thi hành Quyết định này./.
- AERODROME TECHNICAL STAFF/INSPECTOR TRAINING MANUAL
  - AUTHORISATION
  - CONDITIONS OF USE
  - DISTRIBUTION LIST
  - ABBREVIATIONS
  - CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
    - I. Objectives of the document
    - II. Reference documents
    - III. Safety oversight obligation
    - IV. Critical elements of a safety oversight system
  - CHAPTER 2. TRAINING PROGRAMME
    - I. Training policies
    - II. Roles " responsibilities
  - CHAPTER 3. CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAMME
    - I. Training need analysis
    - II. Methodology
    - III. Training roadmaps
    - IV. Development of training plan
  - CHAPTER 4. FORMAL TRAINING GUIDELINES
    - I. General policies
    - II. Types of training
    - III. Formal in-house initial training
    - IV. Structured initial on-the-job training
  - CHAPTER 5. ON-THE-JOB TRAINING " QUALIFICATION
    - I. General policies
    - II. OJT configuration
    - III. Definitions
    - IV. Roles and responsibilities
    - V. OJT Method - Level I
    - VI. OJT Methods - Level II
  - CHAPTER 6. TECHNICALLY QUALIFIED INSPECTORS
    - I. Technical inspectors
    - II. ADI positions
      - 1. Movement Area Inspector
      - 2. Visual Aids and Electrical System Inspector
      - 3. Operating Procedure and Safety Measure Inspector
      - 4. Rescue and Fire Fighting Inspector
  - APPENDIX 1. SUMMARY OF ADI EXPERIENCE
  - APPENDIX 2. ADI TRAINING PROGRAME
  - APPENDIX 3. TRAINING ROAD MAP FOR AERODROME INSPECTOR
  - APPENDIX 4. TRAINING NEEDS ANALYSIS
  - APPENDIX 5: METHODOLOGY IN DETERMINING THE NUMBER OF AERODROME SAFETY INSPECTORS

--- VĂN BẢN LIÊN QUAN ---

Van ban bi thay the:
  - Quyết định 2339/QĐ-CHK năm 2023 về Sổ tay hướng dẫn đào tạo chuyên viên kỹ thuật và giám sát viên an toàn ... (ID: 608932)

Van ban duoc can cu:
  - Quyết định 371/QĐ-BGTVT năm 2024 sửa đổi Điều 3 Quyết định 651/QĐ-BGTVT quy định về chức năng, nhiệm vụ, ... (ID: 604797)
  - Quyết định 651/QĐ-BGTVT năm 2023 quy định chức năng, nhiệm vụ, quyền hạn và cơ cấu tổ chức của Cục Hàng ... (ID: 567847)
  - Thông tư 29/2021/TT-BGTVT hướng dẫn quản lý, khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay do Bộ trưởng Bộ Giao thông ... (ID: 496788)
  - Nghị định 05/2021/NĐ-CP về quản lý, khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay (ID: 463681)
  - Nghị định 66/2015/NĐ-CP quy định về Nhà chức trách hàng không (ID: 286298)
  - Luật Hàng không dân dụng Việt Nam sửa đổi 2014 (ID: 259783)
  - Luật hàng không dân dụng Việt Nam 2006 (ID: 12983)

Van ban lien quan cung noi dung:
  - Quyết định 1005/QĐ-CHK năm 2024 về Phiên bản 02 Tài liệu hướng dẫn khai thác của Cơ sở cung cấp dịch vụ thông tin, dẫn đường, giám sát hàng không do Cục trưởng Cục Hàng không Việt Nam ban hành (ID: 609219)
  - Quyết định 777/QĐ-CHK năm 2023 phê duyệt tạm thời bản mô tả công việc, trình độ đào tạo, yêu cầu điều kiện khác, khung năng lực; cơ cấu ngạch công chức các tổ chức hành chính thuộc Cục Hàng không Việt Nam (ID: 563868)
  - Quyết định 1713/QĐ-CHK năm 2022 về Chương trình đào tạo ban đầu để cấp chứng chỉ chuyên môn nhân viên trợ giúp thủ tục kế hoạch bay do Cục trưởng Cục Hàng không Việt Nam ban hành (ID: 525524)
  - Chỉ thị 4377/CT-CHK năm 2021 bảo đảm an toàn khai thác tàu bay trong điều kiện thời tiết bất lợi do Cục hàng không Việt Nam ban hành (ID: 524820)
  - Công văn 3601/CHK-QLC năm 2021 về đào tạo huấn luyện nhân viên hàng không nhóm “Khai thác cảng hàng không, sân bay” trong thời gian giãn cách xã hội do Cục Hàng không Việt Nam ban hành (ID: 485690)